[music]
Hey, here, Destin, welcome back
u Smarter every day. You certainly know what great science is coming to us
from space telescopes, but you probably do not know what a great science
they're getting into these things to work. For example, check out this NASA photo.
Here they are working on the James Webba Space Telescope Shield, and what I like about this picture,
my dad is right downstairs. This device is working
at a temperature of about 45 Kelvin sticks, but the heat is constantly coming from the sun.
So my dad uses this 3D laser scanner to make sure,
that the solar shield is perfect for providing a stable work environment for the telescope.
Thousand up for you, Dad, I'm proud of you.
I thought I understood how telescopes in the universe were filming,
but it turned out to be far more complicated
than I thought. I will explain two ways you can apply the external force
on the satellite so it turns.
The first way - missiles
So we have our telescope in orbit,
how do we turn it on a star now?
Rockets are great, but they consume fuel, which pollutes the surroundings of the satellite
and you can get fuel and have a mission.
So how to do it without rockets?
Think about
this small compass shot. It is the Earth's magnetic field,
but what if we make it bigger and make a big shot, a giant revolving rod
and put it in a coil. Here we connect
to the source that I have here on the table and zapal it.
You see? Electromagnetic field. So it is true,
that this electromagnetic field in my hand interacts with the Earth's magnetic field
exactly like a compass rifle that rotates?
Yes, this is exactly what's happening here. I'll tell you why. It's called the swing stick.
Scientists are constantly using it on space facilities. They take three such rods
and places them in three different axes, and they are capable of regulating stress
as appropriate, due to its position on the Earth's magnetic field.
This is a very elegant solution because it does not include any moving parts.
The problem, however, is that it works only in places where there is an external magnetic field,
such as Earth. It would not work in the deep universe, even on Mars,
where there is a very weak magnetic field.
To rotate the space telescope
in such places, we must use the physics of rotating cats.
In the previous episode "Smarter" every day, using a high-speed camera,
how the cat can rotate 180 ° from the idle state, using rotation against itself.
Check out the whole video if you need to refresh your mind. But what I have not explained to them,
that the ability to change the overall state of the system
without breaking the momentum of momentum, is a very special problem,
which studied applied mathematicians, non-scientists, robot designers,
and even astrophysicists. Try flipping cats in academic material
and you will see what I mean - thousands of equations.
So to explain why cats are so exceptional, we take a piece of wood with a hole inside
and a ping-pong ball with a mark. Then mark the wood to see how it belongs to it.
When we move the wood, the ball rotates. When we get back,
the system is back in its original position. That's always the case, is not it?
No. When we move the wood and go back in another way,
the system will not return to the original position.
So it means that the motion path determines the state of the system.
Like a ball never slipping, the momentum of momentum is as for cats,
so the cosmic telescopes never change. But we are capable
to change their final rotation.
Special systems like this are called Non-Holistic Systems.
I understand it's a big word
and that you may be watching this video just because there are cats in it. But I need you to hear that.
The physics of inverting cats allows us to take pictures
like this one. Seriously. Flipping cats!
One way to keep a space telescope pointing to a star is a device called
stabilizer flywheel. Several such flywheels revolve inside space installations.
If rotation is required in a particular axis, engineers calculate,
which flywheel should accelerate and slow down and exactly when.
Now I'm in one NASA building and we're going to a special lab.
We are at the position management component laboratory.
And these people know how to steer space satellites
using cat physics. Here is our guide.
(Dean) Come on. (Destin) Thank you for inviting me here after I released my cat video.
- That was good enough. (Destin) Thanks. I have a question.
So the cat basically floats in the universe and then rotates.
- Right. - How it controls its rotation without any
of the external forces acting on it? - He basically uses his legs
and his body to rotate and transmit the momentum.
- You do something like that, right? You mediate momentum.
- Yes, we do momentum management. This is happening at the space station
or any device that drives the universe. We have to drive
the amount of momentum actually in the system, thanks to which we know
aim and focus on the nebula or star we want to see through the telescope.
- And what is this device standing here?
- This is a power gyroscope. Difference between force gyroscope
and a stabilizing flywheel is,
that I can rotate its axes in a power gyroscope. And as you can see,
this has two axis of rotation. Thanks to...
- ... you have far more complicated calculations, right? - Yes we have.
But here's a lot smarter people than I am
and he knows exactly how to shoot a satellite or a telescope
and get from one point to another after a certain trajectory.
But if I turn this up, it will go to the point where it stops
and if I somehow got into this point,
I can not go any further, so I need some other system,
who will get me from this blocked position.
- And here comes the action of external energy ... - Exactly,
Here comes a series of magnetic rotating bars
or drive nozzles. - And the Earth's magnetic field is the source of rotation.
- Yes, it reacts to the Earth's magnetic field. - OK, so here
you're testing these components to make sure they're in the orbit.
- Yes, and here you see the test being done
- Is that what the noise is doing? - That's it - What is it?
- This is a Chandra X-ray telescope test,
where we test the stabilizer flywheel,
to see how long it lasts. If a fault occurs
maybe on that flywheel, we'll get inside
and we need to disassemble the flywheel - I see that this whole thing drives a pretty old computer
- Yes, the Chandra telescope was built in the early nineties,
so the hardware that is used to test Chandra,
is the same one on the telescope, remember that Chandra is now
I think 13 years old telescope - Wow
Basically, you're stuck in time - Yes - When you drop a thing,
you are locked in a certain time, and you have to keep using the same hardware - the same problem was with the space station
or shuttle. They stayed in time
with the components that were made in the 1970s.
- Thank you very much - You are not
- Thank you very much for watching.
I hope you've learned something new about cats and consider subscribing to my channel,
and sharing friends.
Gigi, bring it!
Bring!
Do you hear a bird?
We had a ball.
The only reason you can do it,
is because it is a non-homogeneous system and you know the calculations of inverting cats.
I would like to thank Jimmy Neutron for his farm
and his cats.
[English subtitles: Martin Klapetek] martin.klapetek@gmail.com